**General Services Administration**

Federal Acquisition Service<br>
Technology Transformation Services<br>
18F and Office of Acquisitions<br>
1800 F St. NW \| Washington, DC \| 20405

**Assisted Acquisition on Behalf of the Office of Family Assistance**

TANF Data Reporting System (TDRS) Software Development Services

Request for Quote

**From:** Brian Burns, Contracting Officer (CO), General Services
Administration (GSA), Central Office, Office of Acquisitions<br>
**Issued for:** GSA, FAS, Technology Transformation Services (TTS),
18F<br>
**Subject:** Request for Quotation (RFQ)<br>
**Date:** February 5, 2020<br>
**Set-aside:** Total Small Business<br>
**Contract vehicles:** GSA Schedule Schedule IT 70; SINs 132 51
(information technology professional services) and 132 34 (software
maintenance services).

All clauses, terms and conditions of the schedule holder's contract
apply / flow down to this solicitation and resultant task order
contract. In the event of a conflict between the schedule contract and
an order, the terms and conditions of the schedule contract prevail.

Deadlines and response formats
==============================

  **Item**                        **Date responses due**            **Format**
  ------------------------------- --------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------
  **RFQ Questions and Answers**   MONTH DD, 2020 at noon, eastern   Google Form (see section X for details)
  **Technical Volume**            MONTH DD, 2020 at noon, eastern   Google Form and Google Document (see section X for details)
  **Pricing Sheet**               MONTH DD, 2020 at noon, eastern   Excel Spreadsheet (see section X for details)

  **Government Point of Contact**   
  --------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Contracting Officer               *Brian Burns*
  Contracting Office                *General Services Administration, Federal Acquisition Service, Technology Transformation Services, Office of Acquisition*
  Email                             *brian.burns\@gsa.gov*
  Correspondence                    *Any emails related to this RFQ shall use the email subject heading "RFQ12345 - \[Vendor's Name\]"*

  **Important Dates, Times, and Posting Information**   
  ----------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  RFQ Posting Date                                      *TBD*
  RFQ Closing Date                                      *TBD*
  RFQ Posting Location                                  
  Questions Due:                                        *TBD*
  How to Submit Questions                               *Email to the Contracting Officer*
  Response to Questions Est. Return Date                *TBD*
  Posting Location for Answers                          
  Communications During RFQ Posting                     *The only method by which any terms and conditions of this RFQ may be changed is by a formal amendment generated by the CO. No other communication made whether oral or in writing will modify or supersede the terms of the RFQ. All communication related to the RFQ shall be directed to the Contracting Officer via email.*

1.  **Purpose and Background**

**1.1 Purpose**

In fiscal year 2020, the Office of Family Assistance (OFA) within the
Administration for Children and Families (ACF) entered into an
interagency agreement with 18F within the Technology Transformation
Service (TTS) to provide assisted acquisition services for the
procurement of software development services in support of the TANF Data
Reporting System (TDRS). OFA is seeking a contractor to assist with TDRS
improvements and enhancements. 18F will award and administer the
resultant contract on behalf of OFA. 18F will provide procurement and
technical support to OFA for the life of the contract.

**1.2 Background**

The General Services Administration's (GSA) Technology Transformation
Services (TTS) applies modern methodologies and technologies to improve
the public's experience with Government by helping agencies make their
services more accessible, efficient, effective, and by providing
services that exemplify these values.

The Office of Family Assistance (OFA) has entered into an interagency
agreement (IAA) with TTS for assisted acquisition services. TTS will
acquire the services requested in this solicitation on behalf of OFA and
administer the contract in post award.

The Office of Family Assistance (OFA) within the Administration for
Children and Families (ACF) administers the Temporary Assistance for
Needy Families (TANF) program on behalf of the Department of Health and
Human Services (HHS). Since 1996, the TANF program has served as one of
the nation's primary economic security and stability programs for
low-income families with children. TANF is a block grant that provides
\$16.6 billion annually to states, territories, the District of
Columbia, and federally-recognized Indian tribes. These TANF
jurisdictions use federal TANF funds to provide income support as well
as a wide range of services to vulnerable families with minor children.

As part of oversight and administration of the TANF Program, OFA
operates the TANF Data Reporting System (TDRS).

OFA\'s state, territory, and tribal TANF grantees submit data to TDRS
that they are legislatively-mandated to report. OFA then aggregates the
data and uses it for descriptive analyses and program accountability,
most notably through the work participation rate calculations.

The existing system was developed in the late 1990s using late 80s
technology, possibly with some updates rolled in later on.

The states, territories, the District of Columbia, and
federally-recognized Indian tribes generally input their data in one of
several ways:

-   using a legacy tool (ftanf.exe) that exports files in a special text
    > format (information about the format of the incoming data can be
    > found here:
    > [[https://www.acf.hhs.gov/ofa/resource/tanfedit/index\#transmission-file-header]{.underline}](https://www.acf.hhs.gov/ofa/resource/tanfedit/index#transmission-file-header));

-   using their own software to export the data in this format; or

-   emailing their data to an OFA staff member to be input for them.

The data is then uploaded using SFTP into a system which then
periodically attempts to process the data and import it into the
database which the OFA staff uses for analysis. OFA staff accesses the
data via direct read-only SQL queries using tools like python, Jupyter
Notebooks, and SAS.

The database currently is around 50GB in size, though most of it is
historical data which will most likely not need to be migrated. Most of
the tables seem to contain between 700,000 to 1,300,000 rows and there
appears to be seven or so tables where most of the data is stored. These
tables are renamed periodically so there is a historical record. Access
to this data is extremely limited, both because the data is sensitive
(contains personally identifiable information or PII) and because
managing access to these aging systems is difficult.

**1.3 Problem**

The current TDRS application was developed in the late 1990s and doesn't
take advantage of modern technology or best practices. The system is
inflexible to changing requirements, not automated, has no real user
interface, doesn't validate data effectively, and doesn't provide OFA
with full ownership of the data housed within it. This puts a
disproportionate amount of burden on all users of the system --- both
federal staff and the state, local, and tribal grantees --- and has led
to a painful user experience and often untimely or inaccurate data.

The data TDRS collects and stores from states, tribes, and territories
is critical to OFA's responsibility to report on the TANF program. The
data provides information about how states are meeting their participant
outreach targets, as well as demographic information about low-income
families.

High quality data leads to informed decision-making, and the TANF
program relies on this information to make policy recommendations.
Additionally, states and territories face penalties of up to four
percent of their total grant award each quarter if TDRS data is not
timely, complete, and accurate.

Issues with the current system prevent states from meeting their goals
and prevent the federal team from being able to accurately gauge TANF's
impact. Dealing with the deficiencies of the aging software is taking up
significant amounts of the OFA staff time.

**1.4 Vision**

OFA will build a new, secure, web-based data system to improve the
federal reporting experience for states, tribes, territories, and
federal staff. A system that lets states, tribes, territories directly
upload and view the status of their data will reduce the burden on all
users, improve data quality, and ultimately help low-income families.

2.  **Scope**

OFA seeks agile software development services to begin work toward this
vision of a user-friendly data system. The services to be provided under
this task order will include all aspects of the software development
process --- including initial planning, design, user research, software
development and coding, prototyping, documentation, testing, and
configuration.

This software development project will use agile development principles,
with robust documentation, human-centered design, and an extensible
infrastructure. OFA expects that the development process will be
collaborative and iterative, with open, regular, and frequent
communication between OFA, our 18F partners, and the contractor.

OFA expects that the development process will consist of 2-week sprint
cycles, and that the initial phases of the development process will
focus on creating a system to securely allow the upload of state,
territory, and tribal data; validating the data; storing the data in a
database; providing information on the status of the import/validation
to the state, territory, and tribe users; and allowing the state, tribe,
and territory users to see and download their data in the system.

OFA has designated an employee who will be empowered to serve as the
Product Owner for this project. OFA's Product Owner will liaise with
other stakeholders, weigh business needs, set direction, make
prioritization choices, build a product roadmap,, and support the
development team. Our 18F partner and the contractor will assist OFA
with product management.

Additional OFA subject matter experts will be promptly available to
assist in the development process, including internal user testing. OFA
will arrange for any necessary internal and external user testing.

OFA, not the contractor, will be responsible for the hosting of the
deployed system and obtaining any necessary Authority to Operate (ATO).
OFA will also determine what security controls are required and whether
they have been satisfied. OFA expects to provide those security controls
to the contractor as either acceptance criteria or separate user
stories. The contractor is expected to use best practices for security
in delivering code.

The Contractor must post all developed code to a public source
repository (such as GitHub) designated by OFA.

**2.2 Anticipated Period of Performance, Budget, and Ceiling Price**

The period of performance will include a one year base period with two
one-year option periods. OFA will pay up to \$1.3 million for requested
services and authorized travel incurred during the base period, up to an
additional \$1.3 million for services and authorized travel incurred
during the first option year, and up to an additional \$1.4 million for
services and authorized travel incurred during the second option year.

3.  **Objectives**

**3.1 Backlog**

The set of preliminary user stories set forth below will be the starting
point for the development of software to be provided under this
contract. These preliminary user stories are provided only for
illustrative purposes, and do not comprise the full scope or detail of
the project. OFA expects that the Contractor will work closely with the
Product Owner to perform regular user research and usability testing and
to develop and prioritize a full gamut of user stories as the project
progresses.

Individual user stories may be modified, added, retracted, or
reprioritized by the Product Owner at any time, in coordination with the
Contractor's team. OFA expects that the user stories will be
continuously refined during the development process.

-    As a data and reporting specialist, I need clear data validation, so I have confidence that errors are being found and flagged as early as possible.

-    As a data and reporting specialist, I need customizable data validation rules, so I can adapt my validation rules as my program requires.

-    As a data and reporting specialist, I need all my data in one database so I can create custom queries.

-    As a data and reporting specialist, I need plain-language guidance on how to enter my data and how to remedy data input errors, so I understand the process I am required to follow.

-    As a data and reporting specialist, I need the ability to append metadata to my reports, so I can flag issues I'm having or why I have chosen to leave some fields blank.

-    As a data and reporting specialist, I need automated and timely messages that confirm my data has been received, so I know I have met my reporting requirements.

-    As a data and reporting specialist, I need basic data visualization capabilities, so I can spend less time manually building reports.

-    As a data and reporting specialist, I need a reporting system that accepts multiple file formats, so I do not manually have to enter data into an interface.

-    As a program director, I need an easy-to-use interface, so that staff of varying capacity levels and comfort with technology will be able to successfully use the system.

-    As a program director, I need different levels of access for different types of users, so that personally identifiable information (PII) is kept confidential.

-    As a program director, I need a data reporting format that meets Congressional reporting requirements.

Congressional reporting requirements.
**3.2 List of Deliverables with Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan
(QASP)**

The following chart sets forth the performance standards and quality
levels the code and documentation provided by the Contractor must meet,
and the methods OFA will use to assess the standard and quality levels
of that code and documentation.

| Deliverable | Performance Standard(s) | Acceptable Quality Level | Method of Assessment |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Tested Code | Code delivered under the order must have substantial test code coverage. Version-controlled CMS GitHub repository of code that comprises product that will remain in the government domain. | Minimum of 90% test coverage of all code. All areas of code are meaningfully tested. | Combination of manual review and automated testing |
| Properly Styled Code | [Airbnb Style Guide](https://github.com/airbnb/javascript) and [prettier](https://prettier.io/) for Javascript. CSS and Sass conforms to Block-Element-Modifier [BEM](http://getbem.com/) | 0 linting errors and 0 warnings | Combination of manual review and automated testing with eslint |
| Accessible | Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.1 AA (WCAG 2.1 AA) standards | 0 errors reported for WCAG 2.1 AA standards using an automated scanner and 0 errors reported in manual testing | [http://squizlabs.github.io/HTML\_CodeSniffer/](http://squizlabs.github.io/HTML_CodeSniffer/) or [https://github.com/pa11y/pa11y](https://github.com/pa11y/pa11y) |
| Deployed | Code must successfully build and deploy into staging environment. | Successful build with a single command | Combination of manual review and automated testing |
| Documentation | All dependencies are listed and the licenses are documented. Major functionality in the software/source code is documented. Individual methods are documented inline using comments that permit the use tools such as JsDoc. System diagram is provided. | Combination of manual review and automated testing, if available | Manual review |
| Secure | OWASP Application Security Verification Standard 3.0 | Code submitted must be free of medium- and high-level static and dynamic security vulnerabilities | Clean tests from a static testing SaaS (such as Snyk or npm audit) and from OWASP ZAP, along with documentation explaining any false positives |
| User Research | Usability testing and other user research methods must be conducted at regular intervals throughout the development process (not just at the beginning or end). | Research plans and artifacts from usability testing and/or other research methods with end users are available at the end of every applicable sprint, in accordance with the contractor’s research plan. | OFA will manually evaluate the artifacts based on a research plan provided by the contractor at the end of the second sprint and every applicable sprint thereafter. |

4.  **Contract Place of Performance and Contract Type**

Any work done, whether onsite or offsite, must be covered by the rate
agreed upon between the government and contractor. The contractor will
generally be expected to be available during core working hours from
10:00am to 3:00pm eastern standard time Monday through Friday.
Contractors are not expected to work Federal Holidays or other occasions
when the government is closed.

The contractor may choose the location(s) from which to perform the
required software development services. The contractor will not be
required to work at a government facility, however occasional travel to
government facilities may be required. Actual travel costs to government
facilities will be reimbursed in accordance with federal travel
regulation
([[FTR]{.underline}](https://www.gsa.gov/policy-regulations/regulations/federal-travel-regulation-ftr)).

5.  **Operating Constraints (Non-functional Requirements)**

**5.1 Environment**

-   ***System Requirements** --* The System must incorporate an
    > intuitive web-based interface that is accessible from both
    > internal and external platforms, including desktops, laptops,
    > tablets, thin/zero clients, and mobile devices. The System
    > architecture must incorporate Application Programming Interfaces
    > (APIs) to intermediate major components. The System must not have
    > a single point of failure. The System will use elastic,
    > dynamically-allocated computing resources that accommodate
    > changing demand in real time. The System must include Login.gov
    > user authentication and authorization functionality and use open
    > source encryption protocols.

> At some point in the future, the system may migrate to an ACF cloud
> environment. The type of environment is unknown at this time, so the
> application should be written to be as operationally portable as
> possible.

-   ***Software Requirements** --* The software architecture must be
    > extensible to allow for future development. The code base must
    > incorporate analytics, monitoring, continuous integration, and
    > measurement tools. Application design and development must use
    > [[plain
    > language]{.underline}](https://content-guide.18f.gov/plain-language/)
    > to the extent practical.

-   ***Design Requirements*** -- Any website that is developed or
    > otherwise delivered as a result of this contract shall be in
    > compliance with the website standards of the Technology
    > Transformation Services of the General Services Administration.

> The U.S. Web Design System (USWDS) shall be adopted incrementally over
> the life of the requirement and the contractor shall prioritize
> implementation to align with the priorities identified within the SOO.

-   ***Environments** --* The System will be hosted on Cloud.gov (a
    > FedRAMP-certified internet-connected Platform as a Service). OFA
    > will own and manage the Cloud.gov account and create development,
    > staging, and production environments for this project within that
    > account. The Contractor will have access to the development
    > environment and will be responsible for maintaining that
    > environment. The Contractor must post all developed code to a
    > public source repository (such as GitHub) designated by OFA. OFA
    > will be responsible for creating and managing this repository. OFA
    > will be responsible for setting up and maintaining a Continuous
    > Integration/Continuous Deployment system to automate the
    > deployment of the code in GitHub. OFA will be responsible for
    > creating, maintaining, and managing the Login.gov integrations.

-   **System Access** - All contractor personnel working under the
    > resulting contract will need to obtain a Homeland Security
    > Presidential Directive 12
    > ([[HSPD-12]{.underline}](https://www.dhs.gov/homeland-security-presidential-directive-12))
    > low risk security clearance (or moderate risk security clearance
    > if handling PII) and may need to obtain a personal identity
    > verification (PIV) card in order to perform legacy system
    > integration work. See section 9.9 for additional details.

> Contractor personnel that are required to obtain a PIV card will be
> issued a government-furnished laptop from OFA. Any work that requires
> access to and handling of PII must be performed on the OFA
> government-furnished laptop. Contractor personnel that are not
> required to obtain a PIV card can use contractor-furnished equipment
> to perform work.
>
> Contractors may have to establish multi-factor authentication (MFA) to
> access systems which would require government laptops with PIV cards
> or only MFA through various applications.

-   Additional info that will be provided TBD

**5.2 Personnel Skills and Knowledge**

*Key Personnel* -- The contractor must designate a Facilitator,
Technical Lead, and Design Lead as Key Personnel for this project.

> The Facilitator will be a direct liaison to the government product
> team, and will be responsible for the supervision and management of
> all of the contractor's personnel. The Facilitator does not need to be
> a separate individual and may be a role also fulfilled by any of the
> Key Personnel proposed. This person should have a background as a
> scrum master, product manager, agile coach, or a similar type of role.
>
> The Technical Lead must have a full understanding of the technical
> approach to be used by the contractor's development team and will be
> responsible for ensuring that the contractor's development team
> follows that approach. This person should have a background as an
> engineer.
>
> The Design Lead must have a full understanding of the research
> approach and design patterns to be used by the contractor's
> development team and will be responsible for ensuring that the
> contractor's development team follows that approach. This person
> should have a background as an user experience researcher or designer.

*Key Personnel Substitution* -- Key Personnel substitutions must be
submitted to the CO in writing, and will only be justified in the event
of sudden illness, death, change of employment, or termination of
employment for cause. Contractor requests for a substitution of Key
Personnel must include a detailed explanation of the justifying
circumstances, and a complete résumé for the proposed substitute or
addition, including skills, experience, training, and security clearance
level (if applicable). The CO's failure to approve a proposed
substitution will not constitute grounds for non-performance by the
contractor, or form a valid basis for any claim for money or any
equitable adjustment.

*Skills --* The contractor must provide a cross functional team that is
experienced in working in an Agile process. They must be comfortable
delivering value iteratively and able to pivot quickly based on a
continuous learning environment. The contractor team will use prototypes
and working software as tools to test hypotheses and validate
assumptions. The team should be expected to deliver working software
early in the post-award period, and to iteratively improve the software
through ongoing development sprints (2 week intervals).

> The relevant skills for this project *may* include---

-   Product management

-   Back-end engineering

-   Front-end engineering

-   DevSecOps engineering

-   User research

-   Content design

-   Visual design

-   User support, training, and onboarding

**5.3 Special Clauses**

Contractor Team Arrangements (CTA) are permitted.

Note - FAR 9.6, Contractor Team Arrangements, does not apply to GSA
Schedules teaming. Under GSA Schedules, Teaming allows contractors to
use their individual GSA Schedules to develop a solution for the
government.

{{*If the vendor intends to team, a CTA is required by the closing date
and time of the RFQ. However, a fully executed CTA will be formalized at
time of award. CTAs shall utilize and submit this [[Attachment
1]{.underline}](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oA7Ln2tGusmaO1oj6Lpg6xUqpVgmZWwzva9WDQZZcYg/edit#)
- ID231XXXXXX - Contract Team Agreement when a CTA is applicable*.}}

CTAs will not be evaluated, but will be reviewed to:

-   Gain an understanding of how the arrangement will work

-   Identify any areas of responsibility that may require clarification

-   Identify deficiencies in the CTA in order to understand the
    > probability of successful performance

-   Verify proposed prices/rates against MAS contract awarded
    > prices/rates.

6.  **Instructions and Evaluation**

**6.1 Instructions for Quotes**

**Questions**

All questions concerning this RFQ must be submitted electronically
through [[this Google
Form]{.underline}](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1HetiksUSU7PBjbpRnIYJ9I7yvp2hiDnZHgzmA_04TBU/edit)
by the deadline provided above.

Questions should be written in a way that enables clear understanding of
the contractors\' issues or concerns and must follow the format provided
in the Google form. Statements expressing opinions, sentiments, or
conjectures are not considered valid inquiries and will not receive a
response. Further, contractors are reminded that the government will not
address hypothetical questions aimed at receiving a potential
"evaluation" decision.

Answers will be provided as an amendment to the solicitation.

6.2 Evaluation Criteria and Quote Submittal Instructions 
--------------------------------------------------------

Quotes will be evaluated on the factors listed below. Failure to follow
the instructions may result in the quote being removed from further
consideration for award. Contractors are cautioned not to include
assumptions, caveats, or exceptions within any part of their submission.
Inclusion of assumptions, caveats, or exceptions to the requirement of
any kind may result in the quote no longer being considered. Contractors
should ONLY submit information explicitly requested in this RFQ.

**Phase 1 - Technical Submissions**

Technical submissions *must* consist of:

-   **Criteria 1:** a technical approach of no more than four (4)
    > additional pages to the performance work statement (PWS),

-   **Criteria 2:** a staffing plan of no more than three (3) pages plus
    > resumes and signed letters of intent to participate, and

-   **Criteria 3:** references to one or more source code samples.

Technical submissions *may* also include user research plans and design
artifacts of no more than 3 pages combined.

Technical approach and staffing plans must be submitted using 12-point
type. Submissions over the page limits above will not be considered.

**Criteria 1 - Technical Approach**

The technical approach must set forth the contractor's proposed approach
to providing the services required, including the base software (if any)
and programming language(s) the contractor proposes to use. The
technical approach must also make clear that the contractor understands
the details of the project requirements. The technical approach must
also identify potential obstacles to efficient development and include
plans to overcome those potential obstacles. The technical approach must
also include a description of the contractor's plans, if any, to provide
services through a joint venture, teaming partner, or subcontractors.

Contractors must complete the sections in **RED** of attached
[[Performance Work
Statement]{.underline}](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QWhGnjLdakmBPwOERmEFRGXcm9lefq0vE-mJBbt8p0o/edit#)
(PWS). Submission of any other template will constitute a non-responsive
quote.

**Criteria 2 - Staffing Plan**

The staffing plan must set forth the contractor's proposed approach to
staffing the requirements of this project, including the titles of each
of the labor categories proposed and proposed level of effort for each
member of the contractor's development team (i.e. full time, half time,
etc.). The staffing plan must also identify the proposed Facilitator,
Technical Lead and Design Lead by name, and include a resume for each.
The resumes must include a brief description of the experience and
capability for each individual, but cannot exceed one (1) page in length
each. Contractors proposing Key Personnel who are not currently employed
by the contractor or a teaming partner must include a signed letter of
intent from the individual proposed as Key Personnel that he/she intends
to participate in this project for at least one year. The staffing plan
must also set forth the extent to which the proposed team for this
project was involved in the development of the source code referred to
in the next paragraph.

The staffing plan must set forth and explain the extent to which the
contractor will provide individuals with experience in most the
following areas:

-   Agile development practices

-   Automated (unit/integration/end-to-end) testing

-   Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment

-   Refactoring to minimize technical debt

-   Application Protocol Interface (API) development and documentation

-   Open-source software development

-   Cloud deployment

-   Open-source login/authentication services

-   Product management and strategy

-   Usability research, such as (but not limited to) contextual inquiry,
    > stakeholder interviews, and usability testing

-   User experience design

-   Sketching, wireframing, and/or prototyping, and user-task flow
    > development

-   Visual design

-   Content design and copywriting

-   Building and testing public facing sites and tools

-   User outreach / user adoption

-   Database design and SQL queries

-   Security / compliance

**Criteria 3 - Similar Experience**

The similar experience references to one or more source code samples
must be either links to Git repositories (either credentialed or public)
or to equivalent version-controlled repositories that provide the
evaluation team with the full revision history for all files. If a
contractor submits a link to a private Git repository hosted with
GitHub, the government will provide the contractor with one or more
GitHub user identities by email, and the contractor will be expected to
promptly provide the identified user(s) with access to the private Git
repository.

The source code samples should be for projects that are similar in size,
scope, and complexity to the project contemplated here. The source code
must have been developed by either (i) the contractor itself, (ii) a
teaming partner that is proposed in response to this RFQ, or (iii) an
individual that is being proposed as Key Personnel for this project. The
government would prefer that the source code samples have been for
recent projects involving teams of approximately four to seven full-time
equivalent (FTE) personnel.

If the references to source code samples provided do not include
associated references to user research plans and design artifacts
demonstrating how ongoing user research was incorporated into the
project, then the contractor must submit a user research plan and design
artifacts relating to at least one (1) of the source code samples
provided.

**Phase 2 - Verbal Interviews**

**General Information**

*Format.* After review of Phase 1 -- Technical Submissions, the
government will invite all contractors with a rating of "Some
Confidence" or "High Confidence" to Phase 2 - Verbal Interview. Each
contractor will be scheduled a 60-minute interview with the evaluation
team so they can ask questions based on contractor's technical
submission. Contractors should also introduce their team members who
will be part of the support team. Lastly, the evaluation team will ask
questions in regards to their expertise relative to the project.

*Location.* The interview sessions will be conducted by video chat,
though audio may be substituted as needed. The government will
coordinate and set up the virtual meeting space accordingly (by
providing dial-in or links).

*Date and Time.* The government will schedule the date and time of the
interviews with each contractor after the RFQ closing date and receipt
of "Some Confidence" or "High Confidence" quote submissions. The
government reserves the right to reschedule any contractor's interview
date at the discretion of the Contracting Officer.

Each interview will include an unstructured question and answer session,
during which contractors will be asked questions about the technical
aspects of their quote and their approach to software development. The
government expects these interviews will assist in assessing the
technical abilities of the proposed development team and to better
understand the proposed technical approach described in the contractor's
written submission. All of the contractor's proposed Key Personnel must
participate in the interview.

The Introductions phase of each interview will last no more than 5
minutes, during which the contractor and government interview team
members will introduce themselves.

The Open Technical Session of each interview will last no more than 45
minutes, during which the Contractor interview team will respond to the
government's questions related to the technical aspects of the
contractor's quote. Contractors will NOT be able to use or present any
slides, graphs, charts, or other written presentation materials,
including handouts. There will be no follow-up session for further
questions after this part of the interview.

The Closing Remarks phase of each interview will no more than 5 minutes,
during which the contractor may make a short presentation summarizing
the contractor's responses to the government's questions.

The interview associated with this RFQ does not and will not constitute
discussions or negotiations as defined in FAR Part 15. Statements made
during an interview will not become part of the contract. The government
will not determine a competitive range, conduct discussions, nor solicit
or allow revised quotes.

**Once interviews are complete, each contractor will be assigned a
confidence rating.**

#### Phase 3 - Price Submissions

The government expects that the labor categories and staffing levels set
forth by the contractor in the Excel workbook will be consistent with
the contractor's staffing plan and with their GSA Schedule contract
pricing.

The Contractor will be compensated at fully loaded hourly rates. The
evaluation team intends to evaluate quotes without discussions with
contractors, and therefore the contractor's initial quote should contain
the contractor's best terms.

In an effort to receive the highest quality solution at the lowest
possible price, the government requires discounts on all materials and
services offered by contractors for this requirement in order to be
considered for award. Contractors are encouraged to offer discounts
below schedule contract rates, whichever is applicable. When discounts
are offered, quotations must clearly identify the contract rate, the
discount rate, and the percentage discount for each item or labor rate
being discounted.

The contractor must provide a copy of their GSA Price Lists for all
three (3) years for verification of pricing. If submitting a quote as a
CTA, each member must submit their schedule pricing for each SIN they
are eligible to perform under. If price discounts are not provided on
the GSA price list, then the contractor will be deemed unacceptable.

For contractors that do not have out-year pricing, your task order
pricing may be escalated at the same percentage of your GSA multiple
award schedule (MAS) contract provided you submit a copy of a valid
executed modification of your GSA MAS schedule to the CO.

The government is expecting price reductions for every rate proposed for
the entire period(s) of performance. Prices will be verified to ensure
they do not exceed the contractor\'s Schedule contract price. Prices
will be evaluated with regard to whether discounted rates are offered or
not. Quotes proposing labor rates that exceed those established in the
contractor's BPA contract will not be considered for award.

### 

Contractors will submit an Excel-based spreadsheet detailing the labor
categories, contract rates, discount rates and discount percentages.
This submission must not be submitted in PDF format.

Contractors must complete the sections in **BLUE** of the attached the
Pricing Sheet. The Pricing Sheet attached to this solicitation must be
completed and returned in Excel format with formulae intact. Submission
of any other price sheet will constitute a non-responsive quote.

### Basis of Award and Evaluation Factors

The government will evaluate the submitted quotes against the criteria
set forth below and then make an award based on best value using
tradeoffs. The government intends to utilize a phased approach for this
procurement as described below. To be considered for award, contractors
must successfully pass through each phase.\
\
The government will award a task order resulting from this RFQ to the
responsible contractor whose quote conforms to the RFQ that represents
the best value to the government, price and the other criteria specified
below. Contractors are advised that the non-price evaluation factors
combined are significantly more important than price. As non-price
ratings become closer, price will become more important.

-   Phase 1 -- Technical Submission

    -   **Criteria 1**: Technical Approach

    -   **Criteria 2**: Staffing Plan

    -   **Criteria 3**: Similar Experience

-   Phase 2 - **Criteria 4**: Verbal interview

-   Phase 3 - Price Submission

Contractors must meet all requirements in Phase 1 and will be assigned a
confidence rating. After the initial Phase 1 confidence assignment,
contractors with a ranking of "Some Confidence" or "High Confidence"
will be invited for Phase 2 - Verbal Interview.

Quotes that have failed to meet the criteria established in Phase 1 will
no longer be considered for award. Contractors that pass Phase 2 with a
"Some Confidence" or "High Confidence" will be evaluated based on their
price submission.

The government will evaluate price quotes for award purposes by
evaluating the hourly rate for each labor category and the overall
discount provided off the contractor's GSA schedule pricing. This will
include evaluating estimated hours submitted by the contractor for the
purpose of considering the estimated total cost to the government. The
government may determine that a quote is unacceptable if the option
prices are significantly unbalanced. Evaluation of options under FAR
[52.217-8]{.underline} will be accomplished by using the prices offered
for the last option period to determine the price for a 6-month option
period, which will be added to the base and other option years to arrive
at the total price. Evaluation of options will not obligate the
government to exercise the option(s).

The government also reserves the right to make no award.

**NOTE: The government anticipates selecting an awardee based upon
initial quotes received; therefore, contractors are cautioned to submit
their best price and technical quotes in the initial submission.**

#### Evaluation:

#### Technical Approach

In evaluating a contractor's technical approach, the government will
consider (a) the quality of the contractor's plans to provide the open
source, agile development services required, including user research and
design, (b) the extent of the contractor's understanding of the details
of the project requirements, and (c) the extent to which the contractor
has identified potential obstacles to efficient development, and has
proposed realistic approaches to overcome those potential obstacles.

#### Staffing Plan

In evaluating a contractor's staffing plan, the government will consider
(a) the skills and experience of the Key Personnel and other individuals
that the contractor plans to use to provide the required services, (b)
the mix of labor categories that will comprise the contractor's proposed
development team, and (c) the contractor's proposed number of hours of
services to be provided by each member of the contractor's proposed
development team.

#### Similar Experience

In evaluating a contractor's similar experience, the government will
consider the extent to which the contractor has recently provided
software development services for projects that are similar in size,
scope, and complexity to the project described in this RFQ, and the
quality of those services. In evaluating the quality of those services,
the evaluation team will consider, among other things, the revision
history for all files in the source code samples provided. The
government will also consider the user research and design-related
artifacts that were associated with the source code samples provided or
submitted separately. In considering a contractor's similar experience,
the government may also consider information from any other source,
including contractor's prior customers and public websites.

#### Price

In evaluating a contractor's price, the government will consider the
total of the contractor's estimated costs for the development services,
and travel expenses proposed, for three years (a base year period plus
two one-year option periods). Contractors will use this Excel
[[workbook]{.underline}](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1gHAF8oBsC5oMWsQN2VtKSjtM8rhX2uFDnEYRw9kYu9M/edit#gid=0)
to submit pricing information.

7.0 Administration
==================

7.1 Government Personnel
------------------------

This acquisition will be administered by the following individuals, who
will also monitor contractor performance:

1.  GSA Contracting Officer (CO): Brian Burns

2.  GSA Contracting Officer's Representative (COR): Will be provided at
    > time of award

3.  OFA Contracting Officer's Representative (COR): Will be provided at
    > time of award

The government will notify the contractor if a change occurs to either
the CO or COR. Specifically for the COR, the contractor will receive a
copy of the "COR Delegation of Authority" assignment letter when a COR
is assigned, and the contractor will also receive a letter rescinding
the COR's delegation when appropriate.

7.2 Authorities and Delegations
-------------------------------

**7.2.1** The TTS Office of Acquisition (OA) is the only organization
authorized to enter into or terminate this agreement, modify any term or
condition of this agreement, waive any requirement of this agreement, or
accept nonconforming work.

**7.2.2** The Contracting Officer will designate a Contracting
Officer\'s Representative (COR) at the time of award. The COR will be
responsible for technical monitoring of the contractor\'s performance
and deliverables. The COR will be appointed in writing, and a copy of
the appointment will be furnished to the Contractor. Changes to this
delegation will be made by written changes to the existing appointment
or by issuance of a new appointment.

**7.2.3** The COR is not authorized to perform, formally or informally,
any of the following actions:

a)  Promise, award, agree to award, or execute any agreement,
    > modification, or notice of intent that changes or may change this
    > contract;

b)  Waive or agree to modification of the delivery schedule;

c)  Make any final decision on any contract matters subject to the
    > disputes Clause;

d)  Terminate, for any reason, the Contractor\'s right to proceed;

e)  Obligate in any way, the payment of money by the Government

f)  The Contractor shall comply with the written or oral direction of
    > the Contracting Officer or authorized representative(s) acting
    > within the scope and authority of the appointment memorandum. The
    > Contractor need not proceed with direction that it considers to
    > have been issued without proper authority. The Contractor shall
    > notify the Contracting Officer in writing, with as much detail as
    > possible, when the COR has taken an action or has issued direction
    > (written or oral) that the Contractor considers to exceed the
    > COR's appointment, within 3 days of the occurrence. Unless
    > otherwise provided in this agreement, the Contractor assumes all
    > costs, risks, liabilities, and consequences of performing any work
    > it is directed to perform that falls within any of the categories
    > defined in paragraph 7.2.3. prior to receipt of the Contracting
    > Officer's response issued under paragraph 7.2.4 of this clause.

**7.2.4** The Contracting Officer shall respond in writing within 30
days to any notice made under paragraph 8.2.3 of this clause. A failure
of the parties to agree upon the nature of a direction, or upon the
agreement action to be taken with respect thereto, shall be subject to
the provisions of FAR 52.217-4(d) - Disputes.

**7.2.5** The Contractor shall provide copies of all correspondence to
the Contracting Officer and the COR.

**7.2.6** Any action(s) taken by the Contractor, in response to any
direction given by any person acting on behalf of the Government or any
Government official other than the Contracting Officer or the COR acting
within his or her appointment, shall be at the Contractor's risk.

7.3 Contractor Administration 
-----------------------------

The contractor must provide the name of the individual responsible for
centralized contract administration in support of all work performed
under this order. This individual, at a minimum, will serve as the point
of contact for contractual issues, invoices, and the contractor
representative for annual performance reviews (see section 7.5).

The information, inclusive of the name of the point of contact, email,
and phone number, shall be uploaded through the ITSS Collaboration tool.

7.4 Post Award Orientation Conference
-------------------------------------

The government\'s team (CO, COR, and Product Owner) will hold a kickoff
meeting (or post-award conference) with the selected contractor within
10 calendar days of the acquisition award. This kickoff will include the
selected contractor's team and other relevant government staff to review
and clarify the project's objectives, expectations from the government,
and address any questions the selected contractor may have.

7.5 Contractor Performance
--------------------------

In accordance with FAR 8.406-7 and FAR 42.1502(c), past performance
evaluations shall be prepared at least annually and at the time the work
under the order is completed (to include options) when an order,
individually, exceeds the simplified acquisition threshold. These
evaluations are generally for the entity, division, or unit that
performed the contract or order.

\(1\) Evaluating Contractor Performance: The General Services
Administration is using the Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting
System (CPARS) module as the secure, confidential, information
management tool to facilitate the performance evaluation process. CPARS
enables a comprehensive evaluation by capturing comments from both TTS
and the contractor. The website for CPARS is
[[http://www.cpars.gov]{.underline}](http://www.cpars.gov) Completed
CPARS evaluations are sent to the Past Performance Information Retrieval
System (PPIRS) which may then be used by Federal acquisition community
for use in making source selection decisions. PPIRS assists acquisition
officials by serving as the single source for contractor past
performance data.

\(2\) CPARS Registration: Each award requiring an evaluation must be
registered in CPARS. The awardee will receive several automated emails.
Within thirty days of award, the contractor will receive an email that
contains user account information, as well as the applicable contract
and order number(s) assigned. The contractor will be granted one user
account to access all evaluations.

\(3\) Contractor CPARS Training: The contractor may sign up for CPARS
training. A schedule of classes will be posted to the CPARS training
site
([[http://www.cpars.gov/allapps/cpcbtdlf.htm]{.underline}](http://www.cpars.gov/allapps/cpcbtdlf.htm)
) and updated as needed.

\(4\) Contractor Representative (CR) Role: All evaluations will be sent
to the contractor Representative (CR) named on your award. The CR will
be able to access CPARS to review and comment on the evaluation. If your
CR is not already in the CPARS system, the contracting officer will
request the name and email address of the person that will be
responsible for the CR role on your award.

Once an evaluation is ready to be released the CR will receive an email
alerting them the evaluation is ready for their review and comment. The
email will indicate the time frame the CR has to respond to the
evaluation; however, the CR may return the evaluation earlier than this
date.

TTS shall provide for review at a level above the contracting officer
(i.e., contracting director) to consider any disagreement between TTS
and the contractor regarding TTS's evaluation of the contractor. Based
on the review, the individual at a level above the contracting officer
will issue the ultimate conclusion on the performance evaluation.\
Copies of the evaluations, contractor responses, and review comments, if
any, will be retained as part of the contract file.

8.0 Invoicing
=============

8.1 Invoicing Schedule
----------------------

The Contractor may invoice once services or products, for the awarded
type and quantity of the order, have been delivered, inspected (which
includes, but is not limited to confirming that the services were
rendered and/or product(s) were delivered and function properly, and are
accessible and usable by the teams using the product) and accepted by
written confirmation of the COR through the CO. Acceptance will occur
electronically via GSA's electronic Web-Based Order Processing System,
currently ITSS, by accepting the Acceptance Document generated by the
Contractor. Electronic acceptance of the invoice by the COR is
considered concurrence and acceptance of services.

The Contractor must submit a final invoice within 60 calendar days from
government acceptance. No further charges are to be billed following the
final invoice submission. A completed and signed Release of Claims
([[GSA Form
1142]{.underline}](https://www.gsa.gov/forms-library/release-claims))
shall be uploaded to the ITSS with the submission of a final invoice.

8.2 Content of Invoice
----------------------

In addition to the items below, the Contractor shall submit proper
invoices as specified in FAR 52.212-4(g):

-   GSA Order Number

-   Order ACT Number

-   QP Number (funding document number)

-   Prompt Payment Discount

-   Remittance Address

-   POP for Billing Period

-   POC and Phone Number

-   Invoice Amount

-   Final Invoice Marked as 'Final'

-   Name of Product, Quantity of Product, and Part Number of Product
    > Matching award documents.

All of this information, along with the Period of Performance covered by
the invoice, must be included on each invoice in addition to the
requirements for a proper invoice specified in FAR 52.212-4 (g), the
Prompt Payment clause, FAR 52.212-4(i)(2) and Payments under Time and
Materials and Labor Hours Contracts, FAR 52.232-7.

8.3 Invoice Submission
----------------------

Contractors shall electronically transmit/submit invoices and supporting
documentation for invoices through the GSA web-based procurement system,
through the Central Invoice Service (CIS), the contractor shall submit
invoices electronically by logging into the ASSIST portal
([[https://portal.fas.gsa.gov]{.underline}](https://portal.fas.gsa.gov)
), navigating to the appropriate order, and creating the invoice for
that order. This is the only acceptable means for invoice submissions.

No paper invoices shall be accepted. For additional assistance, contact
the ASSIST Helpdesk at 877-472-4877.

8.4 Limitation of Funds
-----------------------

The Contractor shall not provide volumes of product resulting in charges
to the government that exceed obligated funds. The contractor shall
notify the Contracting Officer, and the COR, in writing, whenever it has
reason to believe that in the next 90 days, the charges to the
government will exceed 75% of the obligated funds. The notice shall
state the estimated amount of additional funds required to complete
performance of this task. The government is not obligated to reimburse
the Contractor for charges in excess of the obligated funds and the
Contractor is not obligated to continue performance or otherwise incur
costs that would result in charges to the government in excess of the
amount obligated under this order. Alerting the government in this
timeframe will allow the government to have additional funding approved
internally so another order can be placed (as needed).

9.0 TTS Transparency Policy & Security Requirements
===================================================

Contractors are advised that TTS reserves the right to publish documents
associated with this requirement on a publicly-available website,
including any Requests for Quotation (including amendments), Question
and Answer exchanges with contractors (source-identifying information
removed), and other relevant information that is not confidential or
proprietary in nature or source selection sensitive information that
would otherwise implicate procurement integrity concerns.

Upon award, TTS may publish the total awarded price and certain
non-source-identifying data (for example, the number of bids, the mean
price, median, and standard deviation of price). During the performance
of this task order, TTS may similarly publish data related to project
management (for example, user stories, milestones, and performance
metrics) and top-line spending data.

**9.1 Section 508 Compliance**

The contractor shall support the Government in its compliance with
Section 508 throughout the development and implementation of the work to
be performed.

Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C.
794d) requires that when Federal agencies develop, procure, maintain, or
use electronic information technology, Federal employees with
disabilities have access to and use of information and data that is
comparable to the access and use by Federal employees who do not have
disabilities, unless an undue burden would be imposed on the agency.
Section 508 also requires that individuals with disabilities, who are
members of the public seeking information or services from a Federal
agency, have access to and use of information and data that is
comparable to that provided to the public who are not individuals with
disabilities, unless an undue burden would be imposed on the agency.

The contractor should review the following websites for additional 508
information:

[[https://www.section508.gov/summary-section508-standards]{.underline}](https://www.section508.gov/summary-section508-standards)

[[http://www.access-board.gov/508.htm]{.underline}](http://www.access-board.gov/508.htm)

[[http://www.w3.org/WAI/Resources]{.underline}](http://www.w3.org/WAI/Resources)

9.2 Privacy Act
---------------

Performance of this Task Order may require that personnel have access to
Privacy Information. Contractor personnel shall adhere to the Privacy
Act, Title 5 of the U.S. Code, Section 552a and any other applicable
applicable rules and regulations.

9.3 Protection of Information
-----------------------------

The Contractor shall be responsible for properly protecting all
information used, gathered, disclosed, or developed as a result of work
under this Task Order. The Contractor shall also protect all Government
data by treating information as sensitive. All information gathered or
created under this Task Order shall be considered as Sensitive but
Unclassified (SBU) information. The use of this data is subject to the
Privacy Act and shall be utilized in full accordance with all rules of
conduct as applicable to Privacy Act Information.

9.4 Organizational Conflicts of Interest
----------------------------------------

All Contractor key personnel, employees, agents, subcontractors and
subcontractor personnel who will have access to documents or data during
the performance of their duties under the Task Order shall execute a
Non-Disclosure Agreement and return it to the CO within 5 calendar days
of award and before being given access to such information or documents.

The Contractor's attention is directed to Federal Acquisition Regulation
(FAR) Subpart 9.5, Organizational and Consultant Conflicts of Interest.

9.5 Data Rights and Ownership of Deliverables
---------------------------------------------

*Data Rights and Ownership of Deliverables* -- OFA intends that all
software and documentation delivered by the Contractor will be made
publicly available without restriction. This software and documentation
includes, but is not limited to, data, documents, graphics, code, plans,
reports, schedules, schemas, metadata, architecture designs, and the
like; all new open source software created by the Contractor and forks
or branches of current open source software where the Contractor has
made a modification; and all new tooling, scripting configuration
management, infrastructure as code, or any other final changes or edits
to successfully deploy or operate the software. For the avoidance of
doubt, the foregoing is included in the definition of \"data\" set forth
in the FAR clause at 52.227-17, incorporated into this contract.

To the extent that the Contractor seeks to incorporate into the software
delivered under this task order any software that was not first produced
in the performance of this task order, OFA encourages the Contractor to
incorporate either software that is in the public domain, or free and
open source software that qualifies under the Open Source Definition
promulgated by the Open Source Initiative. In any event, the Contractor
must promptly disclose to OFA in writing, and list in the documentation,
any software incorporated in the delivered software that is subject to a
license fee.

If software delivered by the Contractor incorporates software that is
subject to an open source license that provides implementation guidance,
then the Contractor must ensure compliance with that guidance. If
software delivered by the Contractor incorporates software that is
subject to an open source license that does not provide implementation
guidance, then the Contractor must attach or include the terms of the
license within the work itself, such as in code comments at the
beginning of a file, or in a license file within a software repository.

In addition, the Contractor must obtain written permission from OFA
before incorporating into the delivered software any software that is
subject to a license that does not qualify under the Open Source
Definition promulgated by the Open Source Initiative. If the \[agency\]
grants such written permission, then the Contractor's rights to use that
software must be promptly assigned to OFA.

The Government data rights of software deliverables and all other data
first produced in the performance of this task order shall be in
accordance with **FAR 52.227-17 Rights in Data \-- Special Works**. The
Government intends for all such data to be dedicated to the public
domain and, to that end, may require the contractor to assign its
copyright in such data to the Government in accordance with **FAR
52.227-17(c)(1)(ii)** or to publicly post it with an appropriate notice.

Ownership of code repositories furnished as Government-Furnished
Information (GFI) and Government-provided data entered into any and all
systems, system documentation, and other related system information
shall reside with the Government.

9.6 Requirements for GSA Information Systems
--------------------------------------------

GSA policies "CIO 09-48, IT Security Procedural Guide: Security and
Privacy IT Acquisition Requirements" and " CIO 12-2018, IT Policy
Requirements Guide" are incorporated in full. [[Please follow this link
for further information or access to the
policies.]{.underline}](https://www.gsa.gov/about-us/organization/office-of-the-chief-information-officer/chief-information-security-officer-ciso/it-security-procedural-guides)

9.7 Assessment and Authorization (A&A) Activities
-------------------------------------------------

Governed by the terms of access allowed by the underlying infrastructure
provider as defined in the SaaS's FedRAMP A&A authorization package.

9.8 Reporting and Continuous Monitoring
---------------------------------------

GSA's Continuous Monitoring Strategy (CIO IT Security 12-66 Rev 2 -
dated 10/10/2017) can be [[found at this
link]{.underline}](https://www.gsa.gov/about-us/organization/office-of-the-chief-information-officer/chief-information-security-officer-ciso/it-security-procedural-guides).

9.9 Personnel Security Requirements
-----------------------------------

Contractor shall furnish documentation reflecting favorable adjudication
of background investigations for all personnel (including
subcontractors) supporting the system. Contractors shall comply with

-   GSA Order CIO 2100.1,

-   "GSA Information Technology (IT) Security Policy," and GSA Order CIO
    > P 2181.1,

-   "HSPD-12 Personal Identity Verification and Credentialing Handbook."

GSA separates the risk levels for personnel working on Federal computer
systems into three categories: Low Risk, Moderate Risk, and High Risk.

-   Those contract personnel (hereafter known as "Applicant") determined
    > to be in a Low Risk position will require a National Agency Check
    > with Written Inquiries (NACI) investigation.

-   Those Applicants determined to be in a Moderate Risk position will
    > require either a Limited Background Investigation (LBI) or a
    > Minimum Background Investigation (MBI) based on the Contracting
    > Officer's (CO) determination.

-   Those Applicants determined to be in a High Risk position will
    > require a Background Investigation (BI).

Applicants will not be reinvestigated if a prior favorable adjudication
is on file with FPS or GSA, there has been less than a one year break in
service, and the position is identified at the same or lower risk level.

Once a favorable FBI Criminal History Check (Fingerprint Check) has been
returned, Applicants may receive a GSA identity credential (if required)
and initial access to GSA information systems. The HSPD-12 Handbook
contains procedures for obtaining identity credentials and access to GSA
information systems as well as procedures to be followed in case of
unfavorable adjudications.

GSA shall sponsor the investigation when deemed necessary. No access
shall be given to government computer information systems and government
sensitive information without a background investigation being verified
or in process. If results of background investigation are not
acceptable, then access shall be terminated.

The Contractor shall provide a report of separated staff on a monthly
basis, beginning 60 days after execution of the option period.

10.0 Provisions & Clauses
=========================

Al provisions included and accepted as part of the vendor's Contract
shall flowdown to this RFQ.

**52.204-24 Representation Regarding Certain Telecommunications and
Video Surveillance Services or Equipment**

Representation Regarding Certain Telecommunications and Video
Surveillance Services or Equipment (Aug 2019)

\(a\) *Definitions.* As used in this provision---

"Covered telecommunications equipment or services", "Critical
technology", and "Substantial or essential component" have the meanings
provided in clause
[[52.204-25]{.underline}](https://www.acquisition.gov/content/part-52-solicitation-provisions-and-contract-clauses#unique_1301136027),
Prohibition on Contracting for Certain Telecommunications and Video
Surveillance Services or Equipment.

\(b\) *Prohibition*. Section 889(a)(1)(A) of the John S. McCain National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Pub. L. 115-232)
prohibits the head of an executive agency on or after August 13, 2019,
from procuring or obtaining, or extending or renewing a contract to
procure or obtain, any equipment, system, or service that uses covered
telecommunications equipment or services as a substantial or essential
component of any system, or as critical technology as part of any
system. Contractors are not prohibited from providing---

\(1\) A service that connects to the facilities of a third-party, such
as backhaul, roaming, or interconnection arrangements; or

\(2\) Telecommunications equipment that cannot route or redirect user
data traffic or permit visibility into any user data or packets that
such equipment transmits or otherwise handles.

\(c\) *Representation.* The Offeror represents that---

It □ will, □ will not provide covered telecommunications equipment or
services to the Government in the performance of any contract,
subcontract or other contractual instrument resulting from this
solicitation.

\(d\) *Disclosures.* If the Offeror has responded affirmatively to the
representation in paragraph (c) of this provision, the Offeror shall
provide the following information as part of the offer

\(1\) All covered telecommunications equipment and services offered
(include brand; model number, such as original equipment manufacturer
(OEM) number, manufacturer part number, or wholesaler number; and item
description, as applicable);

\(2\) Explanation of the proposed use of covered telecommunications
equipment and services and any factors relevant to determining if such
use would be permissible under the prohibition in paragraph (b) of this
provision;

\(3\) For services, the entity providing the covered telecommunications
services (include entity name, unique entity identifier, and Commercial
and Government Entity (CAGE) code, if known); and

\(4\) For equipment, the entity that produced the covered
telecommunications equipment (include entity name, unique entity
identifier, CAGE code, and whether the entity was the OEM or a
distributor, if known).

**(End of provision)**

**552.204-70 Representation Regarding Certain Telecommunications and
Video Surveillance Services or Equipment.**

**As prescribed in 504.2105, insert the following clause:**

REPRESENTATION REGARDING CERTAIN TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND VIDEO
SURVEILLANCE SERVICES OR EQUIPMENT (DATE)

\(a\) Definitions. As used in this clause "covered telecommunications
equipment or services\", \"Critical technology\", and "substantial or
essential component\" have the meanings provided in FAR 52.204-25,
Prohibition on Contracting for Certain Telecommunications and Video
Surveillance Services or Equipment.

\(b\) Prohibition. Section 889(a)(1)(A) of the John S. McCain National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Pub. L. 115-232)
prohibits the head of an executive agency on or after August 13, 2019,
from procuring or obtaining, or extending or renewing a contract to
procure or obtain, any equipment, system, or service that uses covered
telecommunications equipment or services as a substantial or essential
component of any system, or as critical technology as part of any
system. Contractors are not prohibited from providing-

> \(1\) A service that connects to the facilities of a third-party, such
> as backhaul, roaming, or interconnection arrangements; or
>
> \(2\) Telecommunications equipment that cannot route or redirect user
> data traffic or permit visibility into any user data or packets that
> such equipment transmits or otherwise handles.

\(c\) Representation. \[Contractor to complete and submit to the
Contracting Officer\] The Offeror or Contractor represents that it \[ \]
will or \[ \] will not provide covered telecommunications equipment or
services to the Government in the performance of any contract,
subcontract, order, or other contractual instrument resulting from this
contract. This representation shall be provided as part of the proposal
and resubmitted on an annual basis from the date of award.

\(d\) Disclosures. If the Offerer or Contractor has responded
affirmatively to the representation In paragraph (c) of this clause, the
Offeror or Contractor shall provide the following additional information
to the Contracting Officer\--

> \(1\) All covered telecommunications equipment and services offered or
> provided (include brand; model number, such as original equipment
> manufacturer (OEM) number, manufacturer part number, or wholesaler
> number; and item description, as applicable);
>
> \(2\) Explanation of the proposed use of covered telecommunications
> equipment and services and any factors relevant to determining if such
> use would be permissible under the prohibition in paragraph (b) of
> this provision; 10
>
> \(3\) For services, the entity providing the covered
> telecommunications services (include entity name, unique entity
> identifier, and Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) code, if
> known); and
>
> \(4\) For equipment, the entity that produced the covered
> telecommunications equipment (include entity name, unique entity
> identifier, CAGE code, and whether the entity was the OEM or a
> distributor, if known).

**(End of clause)**

#### 

**FAR 52.204-25 Prohibition on Contracting for Certain
Telecommunications and Video Surveillance Services or Equipment**

As prescribed in
[[4.2105]{.underline}](https://acquisition.gov/content/part-4-administrative-matters#id1989H0G40RF)(b),
insert the following clause:

Prohibition on Contracting for Certain Telecommunications and Video
Surveillance Services or Equipment (Aug 2019)

\(a\) *Definitions.* As used in this clause---

"Covered foreign country" means The People's Republic of China.

"Covered telecommunications equipment or services" means--

\(1\) Telecommunications equipment produced by Huawei Technologies
Company or ZTE Corporation (or any subsidiary or affiliate of such
entities);

\(2\) For the purpose of public safety, security of Government
facilities, physical security surveillance of critical infrastructure,
and other national security purposes, video surveillance and
telecommunications equipment produced by Hytera Communications
Corporation, Hangzhou Hikvision Digital Technology Company, or Dahua
Technology Company (or any subsidiary or affiliate of such entities);

\(3\) Telecommunications or video surveillance services provided by such
entities or using such equipment; or

\(4\) Telecommunications or video surveillance equipment or services
produced or provided by an entity that the Secretary of Defense, in
consultation with the Director of National Intelligence or the Director
of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, reasonably believes to be an
entity owned or controlled by, or otherwise connected to, the government
of a covered foreign country.

"Critical technology" means--

\(1\) Defense articles or defense services included on the United States
Munitions List set forth in the International Traffic in Arms
Regulations under subchapter M of chapter I of title 22, Code of Federal
Regulations;

\(2\) Items included on the Commerce Control List set forth in
Supplement No. 1 to part 774 of the Export Administration Regulations
under subchapter C of chapter VII of title 15, Code of Federal
Regulations, and controlled-

\(i\) Pursuant to multilateral regimes, including for reasons relating
to national security, chemical and biological weapons proliferation,
nuclear nonproliferation, or missile technology; or

\(ii\) For reasons relating to regional stability or surreptitious
listening;

\(3\) Specially designed and prepared nuclear equipment, parts and
components, materials, software, and technology covered by part 810 of
title 10, Code of Federal Regulations (relating to assistance to foreign
atomic energy activities);

\(4\) Nuclear facilities, equipment, and material covered by part 110 of
title 10, Code of Federal Regulations (relating to export and import of
nuclear equipment and material);

\(5\) Select agents and toxins covered by part 331 of title 7, Code of
Federal Regulations, part 121 of title 9 of such Code, or part 73 of
title 42 of such Code; or

\(6\) Emerging and foundational technologies controlled pursuant to
section 1758 of the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 (50 U.S.C. 4817).

"Substantial or essential component" means any component necessary for
the proper function or performance of a piece of equipment, system, or
service.

\(b\) *Prohibition.* Section 889(a)(1)(A) of the John S. McCain National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Pub. L. 115-232)
prohibits the head of an executive agency on or after August 13, 2019,
from procuring or obtaining, or extending or renewing a contract to
procure or obtain, any equipment, system, or service that uses covered
telecommunications equipment or services as a substantial or essential
component of any system, or as critical technology as part of any
system. The Contractor is prohibited from providing to the Government
any equipment, system, or service that uses covered telecommunications
equipment or services as a substantial or essential component of any
system, or as critical technology as part of any system, unless an
exception at paragraph (c) of this clause applies or the covered
telecommunication equipment or services are covered by a waiver
described in Federal Acquisition Regulation
[[4.2104]{.underline}](https://acquisition.gov/content/part-4-administrative-matters#id1989GI040ZO).

\(c\) *Exceptions.* This clause does not prohibit contractors from
providing---

\(1\) A service that connects to the facilities of a third-party, such
as backhaul, roaming, or interconnection arrangements; or

\(2\) Telecommunications equipment that cannot route or redirect user
data traffic or permit visibility into any user data or packets that
such equipment transmits or otherwise handles.

\(d\) Reporting requirement. (1) In the event the Contractor identifies
covered telecommunications equipment or services used as a substantial
or essential component of any system, or as critical technology as part
of any system, during contract performance, or the Contractor is
notified of such by a subcontractor at any tier or by any other source,
the Contractor shall report the information in paragraph (d)(2) of this
clause to the Contracting Officer, unless elsewhere in this contract are
established procedures for reporting the information; in the case of the
Department of Defense, the Contractor shall report to the website at
[[https://dibnet.dod.mil]{.underline}](https://dibnet.dod.mil/). For
indefinite delivery contracts, the Contractor shall report to the
Contracting Officer for the indefinite delivery contract and the
Contracting Officer(s) for any affected order or, in the case of the
Department of Defense, identify both the indefinite delivery contract
and any affected orders in the report provided at
[[https://dibnet.dod.mil]{.underline}](https://dibnet.dod.mil/).

\(2\) The Contractor shall report the following information pursuant to
paragraph (d)(1) of this clause

\(i\) Within one business day from the date of such identification or
notification: the contract number; the order number(s), if applicable;
supplier name; supplier unique entity identifier (if known); supplier
Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) code (if known); brand; model
number (original equipment manufacturer number, manufacturer part
number, or wholesaler number); item description; and any readily
available information about mitigation actions undertaken or
recommended.

\(ii\) Within 10 business days of submitting the information in
paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this clause: any further available information
about mitigation actions undertaken or recommended. In addition, the
Contractor shall describe the efforts it undertook to prevent use or
submission of covered telecommunications equipment or services, and any
additional efforts that will be incorporated to prevent future use or
submission of covered telecommunications equipment or services.

\(e\) *Subcontracts.* The Contractor shall insert the substance of this
clause, including this paragraph (e), in all subcontracts and other
contractual instruments, including subcontracts for the acquisition of
commercial items.

**(End of clause)**

This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the
same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request,
the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Applicable
clauses in the contractor's Schedule contract flow-down into this order.

**FAR 52.252-2 \-- CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)**

This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the
same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request,
the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the
full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this/these
address(es):
([[https://www.acquisition.gov/browsefar]{.underline}](https://www.acquisition.gov/browsefar))

**(End of clause)**

**FAR 52.203-18 Prohibition on Contracting with Entities that Require
Certain Internal Confidentiality Agreements or Statements-Representation
(JAN 2017)**

**FAR 52.203-19 Prohibition on Requiring Certain Internal
Confidentiality Agreements or Statements (JAN 2017)**

**GSAR 552.212-4 - Contract Terms and Conditions---Commercial Items (Feb
2018**)**(DEVIATION FAR 52.212-4)**

**GSAR 552.232-39 Unenforceability of Unauthorized Obligations. (FAR
Deviation Feb 2018)**

**GSAR clause 552.238-82, Special Ordering Procedures for the
Acquisition of Order-Level Materials**

**FAR 52.232-18 Availability of Funds (APR 1984)\
**Funds are not presently available for this contract. The Government's
obligation under this contract is contingent upon the availability of
appropriated funds from which payment for contract purposes can be made.
No legal liability on the part of the Government for any payment may
arise until funds are made available to the Contracting Officer for this
contract and until the Contractor receives notice of such availability,
to be confirmed in writing by the Contracting Officer.

**FAR 52.217-8 - Option to Extend Services (Nov 1999)**

The Government may require continued performance of any services within
the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. These rates may
be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates
provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be
exercised more than once, but the total extension of performance
hereunder shall not exceed 6 months. The Contracting Officer may
exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor within 5
calendar days before the contract expires.

**(End of clause)**

**FAR 52.217-9 - Option to Extend the Term of the Contract (Mar 2000)**

\(a\) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written
notice to the Contractor within 5 days provided that the Government
gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to
extend at least 15 days before the contract expires. The preliminary
notice does not commit the Government to an extension.

\(b\) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract
shall be considered to include this option clause.

\(c\) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any
options under this clause, shall not exceed 3 years.

**(End of clause)**
