# Scope

OFA seeks agile software development services to begin work toward this
vision of a user-friendly data system. The services to be provided under
this task order will include all aspects of the software development
process --- including initial planning, design, user research, software
development and coding, prototyping, documentation, testing, and
configuration.

This software development project will use agile development principles,
with robust documentation, human-centered design, and an extensible
infrastructure. OFA expects that the development process will be
collaborative and iterative, with open, regular, and frequent
communication between OFA, our 18F partners, and the contractor.

OFA expects that the development process will consist of 2-week sprint
cycles, and that the initial phases of the development process will
focus on creating a system to securely allow the upload of state,
territory, and tribal data; validating the data; storing the data in a
database; providing information on the status of the import/validation
to the state, territory, and tribe users; and allowing the state, tribe,
and territory users to see and download their data in the system.

OFA has designated an employee who will be empowered to serve as the
Product Owner for this project. OFA's Product Owner will liaise with
other stakeholders, weigh business needs, set direction, make
prioritization choices, build a product roadmap,, and support the
development team. Our 18F partner and the contractor will assist OFA
with product management.

Additional OFA subject matter experts will be promptly available to
assist in the development process, including internal user testing. OFA
will arrange for any necessary internal and external user testing.

OFA, not the contractor, will be responsible for the hosting of the
deployed system and obtaining any necessary Authority to Operate (ATO).
OFA will also determine what security controls are required and whether
they have been satisfied. OFA expects to provide those security controls
to the contractor as either acceptance criteria or separate user
stories. The contractor is expected to use best practices for security
in delivering code.

The Contractor must post all developed code to a public source
repository (such as GitHub) designated by OFA.

## Anticipated Period of Performance, Budget, and Ceiling Price

The period of performance will include a one year base period with two one-year option periods. OFA will pay up to $1.3 million for requested services and authorized travel incurred during the base period, up to an additional $1.4 million for services and authorized travel incurred during the first option year, and up to an additional $1.4 million for services and authorized travel incurred during the second option year.
