**General Services Administration**

Federal Acquisition Service<br>
Technology Transformation Services<br>
18F and Office of Acquisitions<br>
1800 F St. NW \| Washington, DC \| 20405

**Assisted Acquisition on Behalf of the Office of Family Assistance**

TANF Data Reporting System (TDRS) Software Development Services

# Request for Quote

**From:** Brian Burns, Contracting Officer (CO), General Services
Administration (GSA), Central Office, Office of Acquisitions<br>
**Issued for:** GSA, FAS, Technology Transformation Services (TTS),
18F<br>
**Subject:** Request for Quotation (RFQ)<br>
**Date:** February 5, 2020<br>
**Set-aside:** Total Small Business<br>
**Contract vehicles:** GSA Schedule Schedule IT 70; SINs 132 51
(information technology professional services) and 132 34 (software
maintenance services).

All clauses, terms and conditions of the schedule holder's contract
apply / flow down to this solicitation and resultant task order
contract. In the event of a conflict between the schedule contract and
an order, the terms and conditions of the schedule contract prevail.

## Deadlines and response formats

Item                          | Date responses due                | Format
------------------------------|-----------------------------------|-------
**RFQ Questions and Answers** | MONTH DD, 2020 at noon, eastern   | Google Form (see section X for details)
**Technical Volume**          | MONTH DD, 2020 at noon, eastern   | Google Form and Google Document (see section X for details)
**Pricing Sheet**             | MONTH DD, 2020 at noon, eastern   | Excel Spreadsheet (see section X for details)

Government Point of Contact | Contact Info
----------------------------|----------------------
Contracting Officer         | *Brian Burns*
Contracting Office          | *General Services Administration, Federal Acquisition Service, Technology Transformation Services, Office of Acquisition*
Email                       | *brian.burns@gsa.gov*
Correspondence              | *Any emails related to this RFQ shall use the email subject heading "RFQ12345 - \[Vendor's Name\]"*

Important Dates, Times, and Posting Information | Date/Contact
------------------------------------------------|---------------------
RFQ Posting Date                                | *TBD*
RFQ Closing Date                                | *TBD*
RFQ Posting Location                            | *TBD*
Questions Due:                                  | *TBD*
How to Submit Questions                         | *Email to the Contracting Officer*
Response to Questions Est. Return Date          | *TBD*
Posting Location for Answers                    | *TBD*     
Communications During RFQ Posting               | *The only method by which any terms and conditions of this RFQ may be changed is by a formal amendment generated by the CO. No other communication made whether oral or in writing will modify or supersede the terms of the RFQ. All communication related to the RFQ shall be directed to the Contracting Officer via email.*


# Contract Place of Performance and Contract Type

Any work done, whether onsite or offsite, must be covered by the rate
agreed upon between the government and contractor. The contractor will
generally be expected to be available during core working hours from
10:00am to 3:00pm eastern standard time Monday through Friday.
Contractors are not expected to work Federal Holidays or other occasions
when the government is closed.

The contractor may choose the location(s) from which to perform the
required software development services. The contractor will not be
required to work at a government facility, however occasional travel to
government facilities may be required. Actual travel costs to government
facilities will be reimbursed in accordance with [federal travel
regulation](https://www.gsa.gov/policy-regulations/regulations/federal-travel-regulation-ftr)).


# Operating Constraints (Non-functional Requirements)


# Special Clauses

Contractor Team Arrangements (CTA) are permitted.

Note - FAR 9.6, Contractor Team Arrangements, does not apply to GSA
Schedules teaming. Under GSA Schedules, Teaming allows contractors to
use their individual GSA Schedules to develop a solution for the
government.

*If the vendor intends to team, a CTA is required by the closing date
and time of the RFQ. However, a fully executed CTA will be formalized at
time of award. CTAs shall utilize and submit this [Contract Team Agreement](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oA7Ln2tGusmaO1oj6Lpg6xUqpVgmZWwzva9WDQZZcYg/edit#)
when a CTA is applicable.*

CTAs will not be evaluated, but will be reviewed to:
-   Gain an understanding of how the arrangement will work
-   Identify any areas of responsibility that may require clarification
-   Identify deficiencies in the CTA in order to understand the
    probability of successful performance
-   Verify proposed prices/rates against MAS contract awarded
    prices/rates.
